My name is Maximiliano, I can go by Max.
I'm a Frontend tutor,
firt.dev, my website.
This is going to read
JavaScript in the background.
So really quickly, so
I'm a mobile Web developer.
I'm from Argentina.
I came from Buenos Aires, actually.
And I've been doing JavaScript and
PWA since forever,
HTML since 1996 and
JavaScript just after that.
I authored 13 books and I published
a lot of Web apps where I actually
did some of the tricks,
things that we will be covering today.
So, recently I published to learn/pwa.
It's a free kind of an ebook
on progressive Web apps
available on web.dev website from Chrome.
And I've done around 20
workshops on Web Push.
That is one of the topics that
we will be covering today.
I've been covering this
background thing for a while.
In fact, this is an article I published
nine years ago called Zombie Tab.
It was actually a trick that I found to
actually wake up a background tab for
iPads and iPhones, long time ago.
That trick doesn't exist anymore.
But anyway, so
I've been following the idea of running
JavaScript in the background for a while.
So we're going to be covering
the Web app lifecycle.
So what's actually the background?
So what is the background?
So we're going to see about the life
while it's in the background.
So how does it look like?
How to detect that we
are in the background.
What about notifications?
And then we're going to code and
see in action a couple of APIs.
That's the Page Visibility API.
A little bit about service workers.
Not exactly about the service
worker itself, but
how does it work with the background,
right?
Then execution in the background so
different
ways in API's that we have to actually
execute code while in the background.
And also to wake up code
while in the background.
And then we will end up seeing some
samples on Web push notifications.
So, that's actually our outline for today.
So, there is a URL there,
there is a repository with the code
that we will be following today.
Also, you have the slides there,
github.com/firtman,
my last name, javascript-background.
And in terms of pre-requisites,
I just need you to understand JavaScript.
So that's actually the only requisite.
If you have experience with service
workers, it will be better.
But if you have never played with it,
no worries.
We will be seeing the staff there.
And also we are going to be using
probably something around ES 2017.
So actually promises, async,
await, that kind of stuff.
We are not going to use any framework or
any library.
So we are just going to
use just plain JavaScript.
So you can actually apply what we're
going to learn today in any brush.
Okay, this is React,
Vie, Angular, wherever.